HELP.md, before:

# Polski

_Ucz się sanskrytu, czytając Mahabharatę w JayaApp!_

Głównym celem aplikacji jest wspieranie nauki sanskrytu poprzez stopniowe poznawanie Mahabharaty i interakcję z każdym wersem oraz każdym słowem poprzez rozbudowany system pomocy AI.

## Czat AI

### Pamiętaj, aby skonfigurować (darmowe) konto Ollama - umożliwi to korzystanie z czatu AI

Instrukcje są dostępne w oknie czatu, jeśli jeszcze nie skonfigurowałeś(-aś) konta.

### Dodawanie referencji do słów i wersów podczas edytowania promptu AI

Kliknij słowo sanskryckie lub obszar wersetu, aby dodać ich treść do promptu.

### Używanie systemu pomocy „Pomóż mi”

Kliknij przycisk „Pomóż mi”, a następnie kliknij słowo sanskryckie, słowo tłumaczenia lub obszar wersetu. Kontekstowe menu pomocy pojawi się i umożliwi uruchomienie wcześniej zdefiniowanych promptów, które mają zastosowanie w danym kontekście.

## Podziękowania

Chciałbym wyrazić wdzięczność Boskiej Matce za zainspirowanie pracy nad tą aplikacją.

Tekst Mahabharaty został pozyskany z <a href="https://www.sacred-texts.com/hin/maha/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Internetowego Archiwum Świętych Tekstów</a>.

W rozwoju tej aplikacji zostały wykorzystane liczne narzędzia AI (DeepSeek, ChatGPT, Claude, Qwen, VS Code Copilot, Cursor).

## Licencja

Kod źródłowy aplikacji oraz jej backend dostępne są na licencji <a href="https://mit-license.org/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">MIT</a> poprzez <a href="https://github.com/jayaapp" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">GitHub</a>.

## Copyright

© {YEAR} <a href="https://trueheartapps.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">True❤️Apps</a>

# English

_Learn Sanskrit by reading the Mahabharata in JayaApp!_

The main goal of the app is to support you in learning Sanskrit by gradually exploring the Mahabharata and interacting with each verse and each word through an extensive AI help system.

## AI Chat

### Remember to configure your (free) Ollama account to use AI chat

Instructions are available in the chat window if you haven't configured your account yet.

### Adding references to words and verses while editing the AI prompt

Click on a Sanskrit word or verse area to add its content to the prompt.

### Using the "Help Me" system

Click the "Help Me" button and then click a Sanskrit word, a word from a translation, or a verse area. A contextual help menu will appear and help launch predefined prompts that apply to the given context.

## Acknowledgments

I would like to express my gratitude to the Divine Mother for inspiring the work on this application.

The Mahabharata text was sourced from the <a href="https://www.sacred-texts.com/hin/maha/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Internet Sacred Text Archive</a>.

Numerous AI tools were used in the development of this application (DeepSeek, ChatGPT, Claude, Qwen, VS Code Copilot, Cursor).

## License

The application's source code and backend are available under the <a href="https://mit-license.org/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">MIT License</a> via <a href="https://github.com/jayaapp" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">GitHub</a>.

## Copyright

© {YEAR} <a href="https://trueheartapps.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">True❤️Apps</a>

Commit message:

Added static analysis help section

HELP.md, after:

# Polski

_Ucz się sanskrytu, czytając Mahabharatę w JayaApp!_

Głównym celem aplikacji jest wspieranie nauki sanskrytu poprzez stopniowe poznawanie Mahabharaty i interakcję z każdym wersem oraz każdym słowem poprzez rozbudowany system pomocy AI.

## Czat AI

### Pamiętaj, aby skonfigurować (darmowe) konto Ollama - umożliwi to korzystanie z czatu AI

Instrukcje są dostępne w oknie czatu, jeśli jeszcze nie skonfigurowałeś(-aś) konta.

### Dodawanie referencji do słów i wersów podczas edytowania promptu AI

Kliknij słowo sanskryckie lub obszar wersetu, aby dodać ich treść do promptu.

### Używanie systemu pomocy „Pomóż mi”

Kliknij przycisk „Pomóż mi”, a następnie kliknij słowo sanskryckie, słowo tłumaczenia lub obszar wersetu. Kontekstowe menu pomocy pojawi się i umożliwi uruchomienie wcześniej zdefiniowanych promptów, które mają zastosowanie w danym kontekście.

## Analiza statyczna

Aplikacja wyświetla algorytmiczną analize budowy słowa oraz wpis leksykonu, które stają się dostępne po kliknięciu słowa w notacji Devanagari lub IAST.

## Podziękowania

Chciałbym wyrazić wdzięczność Boskiej Matce za zainspirowanie pracy nad tą aplikacją.

Tekst Mahabharaty został pozyskany z <a href="https://www.sacred-texts.com/hin/maha/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Internetowego Archiwum Świętych Tekstów</a>.

W rozwoju tej aplikacji zostały wykorzystane liczne narzędzia AI (DeepSeek, ChatGPT, Claude, Qwen, VS Code Copilot, Cursor).

## Licencja

Kod źródłowy aplikacji oraz jej backend dostępne są na licencji <a href="https://mit-license.org/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">MIT</a> poprzez <a href="https://github.com/jayaapp" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">GitHub</a>.

## Copyright

© {YEAR} <a href="https://trueheartapps.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">True❤️Apps</a>

# English

_Learn Sanskrit by reading the Mahabharata in JayaApp!_

The main goal of the app is to support you in learning Sanskrit by gradually exploring the Mahabharata and interacting with each verse and each word through an extensive AI help system.

## AI Chat

### Remember to configure your (free) Ollama account to use AI chat

Instructions are available in the chat window if you haven't configured your account yet.

### Adding references to words and verses while editing the AI prompt

Click on a Sanskrit word or verse area to add its content to the prompt.

### Using the "Help Me" system

Click the "Help Me" button and then click a Sanskrit word, a word from a translation, or a verse area. A contextual help menu will appear and help launch predefined prompts that apply to the given context.

## Static analysis

The app displays algorithmic word formation analysis and a lexicon entry for the clicked word; these are available when you click a word shown in Devanagari or IAST.

## Acknowledgments

I would like to express my gratitude to the Divine Mother for inspiring the work on this application.

The Mahabharata text was sourced from the <a href="https://www.sacred-texts.com/hin/maha/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Internet Sacred Text Archive</a>.

Numerous AI tools were used in the development of this application (DeepSeek, ChatGPT, Claude, Qwen, VS Code Copilot, Cursor).

## License

The application's source code and backend are available under the <a href="https://mit-license.org/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">MIT License</a> via <a href="https://github.com/jayaapp" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">GitHub</a>.

## Copyright

© {YEAR} <a href="https://trueheartapps.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">True❤️Apps</a>
